JUnit 4 is over 10 years old, and during this time,
a lot of teams have used it as the foundation of
their unit testing infrastructure.
So I think it's safe to say that there are a lot of extensions for JUnit 4.
These extensions come in the form of runners and rules.
Runners are very powerful.
Almost every aspect of test execution can be changed.
To use a runner, you have to annotate a test class with RunWith.
The problem is that you cannot combine runners.
You can only have one runner per test class.
On the other hand, rules were introduced in JUnit 4.7,
and they wrap the execution of a test method just like an aspect‑oriented
framework could do before and after the test execution.
You just need to add a public, non‑static field to the test class,
ensure that the type of the field is a subtype of test rule,
and annotate it with the Rule annotation.
There are also class‑level rules that affect the
operation of the whole test class.
But in JUnit 5,
the extension mechanism changed to support several
extension points represented by interfaces.
This way, most runners are now implemented as extensions of this type.
In the case of rules, JUnit 5 doesn't support them natively.
I mean, you cannot create rules in JUnit 5.
But since there are a lot of organizations still using JUnit 4 rules,
the JUnit team decided to support some selected types of
rules by creating extensions to make them compatible with
the Jupiter extension model.
The rule types that JUnit 5 supports are ExternalResource, including
TemporaryFolder, Verifier, including ErrorCollector,
and ExpectedException.
The extensions that provide support for these rules are grouped in
the annotation EnableRuleMigrationSupport. Here you can see its
definition. You have to annotate the class that uses the JUnit 4
rule with this annotation.
Alternatively, you can annotate the test class with
EnableJUnit4MigrationSupport,
which registers migration support for rules using the
EnableRuleMigrationSupport annotation while also adding an
extension to support JUnit 4 Ignore annotation.
These annotations are located in a JAR with the group ID
org.junit.jupiter and the artifact ID junit‑jupiter‑migrationsupport.
So let's review how rule support in JUnit 5 works with a rule of type
ErrorCollector. I've created a project with configuration files for both
Maven and Gradle. Let's open, for example,
the build.gradle file. The project has a dependency to run Jupiter tests, and
JUnit 4, because they are a collector class, is in this JAR.
Notice that I'm not including JUnit Vintage because
I'm not going to run a JUnit 4 test.
Remember, we are testing the support of rules on JUnit 5.
This is possible due to the adapted extensions that live in this JAR,
junit‑jupiter‑migrationsupport. The pom.xml file contains the same
dependencies. But in the test directory in the
com.wiredbraincoffee.reward package, let's create the class
RewardByDiscountServiceTest. I'm going to add the import statements
I'll be using, a setUp method to create an instance of the
RewardByDiscountService and an order with some products.
And I'm going to test if the discount is applied when
the customer has enough points.
But instead of using the assertion methods of JUnit Jupiter,
I'm going to define another collector and use the method
checkThat to test that a discount is applied and the points
redeemed. If I execute this class, the test passed.
But what this ErrorCollector does is continuing the execution
of a test after an assertion error is found.
So let's add a print statement at the end of the method to see if it's
executed when I modify the first condition to make it fail.
Let's see. It passed.
So the rule is not working. To make it work, I just have to
annotate the class with either EnableRuleMigrationSupport or
EnableJUnit4MigrationSupport.
Let's use the latter and run the test one more time.
There you have it.
The print statement was executed even when there's an assertion error.
Now if I modify the points redeemed to cause an error,
let's see. The print statement is still executed, and
there are two assertion errors. And if I fix these expressions, the test passed as expected.